[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: It's not as interesting
if all we can do is have that stream on
our self.
It really starts to get interesting when
we can share that stream with others.
And so the next piece of Web RTC
is what we call RTCPeerConnection.
This is an object that you
instantiate inside of your browser.
And in somebody else's browser, they also
instantiate an object, and these objects
have a special behavior that they're able
to create a connection between each other.
And that's what allows this peer-to-peer
connection between browsers.
Now what's we have
the RTCPeerConnection established,
which I'll explain how that it
gets established in a moment.
But once it's been established,
we very simply just attach the video and
audio stream to the object.
We literally just say
attach a video stream.
And magically those two objects figure
out how to transmit that video in
real time between each other.
So I can be seeing your video and
you can be seeing mine and
that's how we have real time
conferencing in the web.
Totally peer to peer,
no middleman doesn't cost anything
whatsoever, same thing with audio.
[COUGH] So how do we establish this
magical peer connection objects,
how do we create those?
More high level architecture diagrams.
We start out [COUGH] we start out
by having this webcam access and
this audio access, we get those streams.
We can optionally add them to a video or
an audio element as we've already talked
about but we don't even have
to do that because really
we wanna attach the audio and video
streams to the RTCPeerConnection object.
And then in somebody else's browser on
the other side of the Internet they
have an RTCPeerConnection object that
doesn't yet have an audio or video stream.
But as soon as you connect to them
they magically have an audio and
video stream that shows up and they on
that side can take those stream objects
and attach them directly to videos or
audio elements and
do all the same things in terms of writing
them to canvas and saving them out.
And the magic happens inside of the cloud.
So let's talk about what's
that magical cloud like.
That's everybody's favorite part of
any diagram is when you put the little
cloud up there.
Everything happens inside of the cloud,
all right?
So what's gonna need to happen,
is this process that we call signaling.
So my best metaphor for
this is before you are married.
If you're not married and some friend of
yours wants to set you up on a blind date.
So they ask you and
they ask the other person.
They say would you like to show up at xyz,
Olive garden or
whatever restaurant at
7 PM on Tuesday night?
So they ask you and you say yes.
Then they go to the other person and say,
would you like to show up at
Olive Garden at 7 PM, Tuesday night?
Yes, okay,
both of you need to show up there.
Now your friend, if there are any
kind of a good friend at all,
they're not gonna actually show up
on the blind date with you, right?
All they did was do the scheduling, they
did the signaling between the two of you,
they were acting as a go
between as a middleman.
But they don't show up on the date,
it's just the two of you that show up on
the day and that's much like
how Web RTC gets established.
We need a signaling server.
We need a server that is able
to know about both you and me so
that our laptops are our web clients,
our browsers can be introduced.
And then once they've been introduced our
browsers establish a direct connection and
we cut the middleman out.
There are some experiments into what
would the web architecture look like for
what we call a server lists web RTC.
In other other words without
requiring any kind of signaling how
could two browsers discover each
other out on the open Internet?
And there are some very
sophisticated protocols that people
are experimenting with.
But right now what we know about web
RTC is that it requires an introduction
through this signaling process.
So I'm gonna walk you through real quickly
how that signaling process happens but
then don't worry cuz it's gonna
feel a little complex but
don't worry because you don't
actually have to do most of the work.
There's just a little bit
that you have to do, okay?
The first thing that you do have
to do it is really important but
it's actually really easy for you to do.
Is that you need to distinguish
two different browsers that
are connected to your application like
you have a child application or whatever,
you need to distinguish one of them is the
caller and one of them is the receiver.
And there's no requirement
how you make that decision.
But they do different things
in a different order so
it's important that you distinguish
between caller and receiver.
The most likely thing is if it's a game,
the first person into the game
is the caller and the second person
in the game is the receiver.
Or if it's a chat application,
whoever does the double-clicking on
the other person's name is the caller, and
the person that got clicked on
is the receiver, or whatever.
It's totally up to you in your own
business logic how you distinguish, but
you have to pick a caller and a receiver.
And you need to indicate to each of
them which role they're gonna play
in the signaling process.
Now you need a server, and
by the way almost always people implement,
not always but almost always people
implement the signaling server, the
communications here through web sockets.
So it's a nice addition on to what
we've already been talking about.
We already know how web sockets work so
now we can send these signaling
messages in very fast and
efficient manner to a signaling
server using web socket technology.
So what's gonna happen is, the caller is
going to create what's called an offer.
Creates an offer SDP, it's just this
packet of information that indicates
who he is and what kind of browser he is?
And what sort of video codecs he works on?
What his network looks
like that sort of thing?
And he sends that information
through the signalling server so
he sends it as a web socket message
to the signalling server who then
doesn't care whatsoever what the messages.
He completely ignores
the type of message and
then he turns around and
sends it right back out.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: This may be
jumping ahead a little bit but
is asking will this work with
multiple users or how would it work?
>> Kyle Simpson: Web RTC is fundamentally
a peer to peer technology and
that you can create a daisy chain
peer to peer, peer to peer,
peer to peer create a circular thing.
You can have everybody
connected to everybody else.
In reality, what we've seen in
terms of testing is that most of
the time you need to employ a more
sophisticated network topology
if you want to have lots and
lots of people peer connected.
Most of the time products like Skype and
those other VoIP communications that
do these peer to peer connections.
They have built into them these
sophisticated algorithms where they elect
broadcast peers.
So you may not know that your system
is acting as a broadcast peer but
rather than everybody being
connected to everybody else.
Everybody connects to you and your system
does the broadcasting to everybody else.
So those sorts of sophisticated things
are usually required when you're gonna
have any more than three or
four people in a peer to peer connection.
Because the amount of connections that
are created and the amount of network
traffic that's happening just takes
down a network whenever you have that.
So when you go beyond three or
four connections,
you are gonna need a more sophisticated
management mechanism for it.
But they're working on that
sort of thing already.
>> Speaker 2: So like electing to be the
host of a multiplayer game [CROSSTALK].
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes,
it's exactly the same analog, exactly.
>> Speaker 2: Sweet.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH] All right so
we send the offer SDP over [COUGH]
the signalling server just
as a dumb relay client.
He literally just sends it on to
the receiver, the receiver gets that offer
SDP and sets as it is a local thing and
then there is as remote SDP and
then he creates an answer SDP,
which has all of his information in it.
What kind of browser he has?
What sort of video and
audio codecs he has available to him?
What his network looks like?
And he sends that back, which just
gets dumb relayed back to the caller.
So they've now done a handshake where
they've exchanged business cards and
each one knows about the other one.
And there may be some further negotiations
that they have to make but for
the most part they now know everything
they need to know about each other
in terms of which compression
protocols to use and
what encryption keys to use and
all of that stuff.
It's all completely handled
entirely inside of the SDP.
And for the most part you don't need
to worry about any of those details.
There's another thing that you should be
wondering if you know anything at all
about networks.
What happens if the caller
is behind a fire wall and
the receivers behind
a totally different firewall.
How on earth could they possibly
establish a direct network connection?
While there's a solution built into this,
it's a fantastically complex solution but
there is a solution built into
Web RTC which for the most part
has been successful at creating direct
connections even behind firewalls.
There are some firewalls out
there which are just so secure.
They're never gonna get
a direct connection and so
we end up doing these media relays.
But for the most part what you end
up doing is this thing called,
there's a turn server, and a stun server.
And the stun servers the one
that gets used first.
What it attempts to do on the color
side is poke a hole in the firewall
nodding and establish an outbound
connection to a public stuns server.
There are currently two
out there right now.
One is run by Mozilla alone
one is run by Google.
There will be lots more, they'll be like
the route DNS servers eventually but
currently there are two out there.
So your client is automatically configured
to punch a hole out to that public stunned
server, make some sort of connection with
it and then figure out everything he needs
to know about his Internet location and
his network routing and all of that stuff.
He figures all of that out and
that's part of what he sends
along as part of his offer SDP.
And the receiver does
the exact same thing,
you context a stun server figures out
all his network and sends it along.
Sometimes depending upon your network
conditions you might need to do several
rounds of negotiation in terms of how
you communicate over the network.
And that is handled by this third Item,
which is called ICE.
These ICE candidates are additional
pieces of information that are discovered
about the network protocols that
are involved in communicating directly.
And so your signaling server also needs to
just opaquely just pass
those messages on through.
Now that sounds like a fantastic
amount of complexity.
You don't have to do hardly any of it.
You just have to spin up the objects and
make sure the messages go through.
And once you've established that
connection, now the audio and
video streams will go automatically
they'll just go directly peer to peer.
But that would not be interesting
if that was all web RTC
had to do because there's just only so
many video and
audio conferencing solutions
that we gonna be able to build.
What's really interesting,
what's really gonna push the envelope
is peer to peer DataChannel.
In the same way that we can send
arbitrary bits of data over web sockets,
we will be able to establish an arbitrary
two way data channel between two peers and
they can arbitrarily transmit
information to each other.
Like files for instance or moves in
your game if you're playing your games.
There's all thousands and
upon millions of different ideas that we
might be able to use with DataChannels.
But how do we use
a DataChannel peer to peer.
This is the most recently
evolving part of the spec but
it's actually working already now.
So the way audio and
video streams work is their single flex.
There just one direction.
So I can be listening to your audio and
video.
You don't necessarily have my audio and
video although you can.
But with data channels they're built in
duplex, they're built in encrypted and
they're built in compressed.
So all that's already taken care of,
you don't need to do anything about that.
You just establish a data channel and
the other guy hears about the data channel
through the RTCPeerConnection object and
bam they're able to transfer their data.
Now here's some code that should look
really crazy and ugly and scary to you but
it's actually not all that bad at
all because most of this ugliness
has to do with all the vendor
prefixing going on.
Vendor prefixes suck,
this is the sort of thing that needs to be
hidden behind facade so
you don't need to worry about it.
But I just wanted to show you it's as
simple as create a peer connection object,
create a ICE candidate,
create a session description.
And then hear down here is
the most important part.
All you need to do is be able to
signal to a web socket server,
you just need to do init and on.
We already learned how to do
web socket communication so
that should look incredibly simple to you.